<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# namespaceutil

```go
import "github.com/blueprint-uservices/blueprint/blueprint/pkg/coreplugins/namespaceutil"
```

Package namespaceutil provides helper functionality for IRNodes that implement namespaces.

Although the \[wiring\] package defines and implements the \[wiring.Namespace\] interface that is a central component of building Blueprint's IR, the methods of the namespace package are primarily intended to help Blueprint plugins in constructing IRNodes that correspond to wiring namespaces.

A namespace node is an IRNode that can contain arbitrary nodes of a particular type. For example, a Golang process node is a namespace node that can contain any instances of Golang services.

Some plugins introduce new kinds of namespace nodes. For example the Golang process node is introduced by the goproc plugin. The functionality provided in the namespace package is intended to aid plugins that want to introduce new kinds of plugin.

This package simplifies the task of adding child nodes to namespaces, with the [AddNodeTo](<#AddNodeTo>) function. When used in conjunction with [InstantiateNamespace](<#InstantiateNamespace>), child nodes will be automatically instantiated when a namespace node is instantiated.

This package also takes care of adding modifiers to pointers to build the server side of pointers inside the correct namespaces

## Index

- [func AddNodeTo\[NamespaceNodeType any\]\(spec wiring.WiringSpec, namespaceName string, childName string\)](<#AddNodeTo>)
- [func InstantiateNamespace\(parentNamespace wiring.Namespace, namespaceNode IRNamespace\) \(wiring.Namespace, error\)](<#InstantiateNamespace>)
- [type IRNamespace](<#IRNamespace>)


<a name="AddNodeTo"></a>
## func [AddNodeTo](<https://github.com/blueprint-uservices/blueprint/blob/main/blueprint/pkg/coreplugins/namespaceutil/namespace.go#L46>)

```go
func AddNodeTo[NamespaceNodeType any](spec wiring.WiringSpec, namespaceName string, childName string)
```

If a Blueprint plugin derives a namespace \(e.g. a Process namespace that contains Golang nodes\) then the plugin can use this method. When namespace gets instantiated, it will build child. If child is a pointer, then the pointer is also modified, so that when child is instantiated, it is done so within namespace. The type parameter NamespaceNodeType is the namespace node type, e.g. Process

<a name="InstantiateNamespace"></a>
## func [InstantiateNamespace](<https://github.com/blueprint-uservices/blueprint/blob/main/blueprint/pkg/coreplugins/namespaceutil/namespace.go#L103>)

```go
func InstantiateNamespace(parentNamespace wiring.Namespace, namespaceNode IRNamespace) (wiring.Namespace, error)
```

Used in conjunction with [AddNodeTo](<#AddNodeTo>). InstantiateNamespace derives a new child namespace from the provided parent namespace, then within that child namespace, instantiates all child nodes that were previously added using [AddNodeTo](<#AddNodeTo>). Child nodes are instantiated lazily, using \[Namespace.Defer\].

The node argument is an \[ir.IRNode\] that also implements the \[wiring.NamespaceHandler\] interface, for receiving child nodes.

Returns the child namespace. If the child namespace has already been created, this method will return an error

<a name="IRNamespace"></a>
## type [IRNamespace](<https://github.com/blueprint-uservices/blueprint/blob/main/blueprint/pkg/coreplugins/namespaceutil/namespace.go#L34-L37>)

An IRNode that also implements the \[wiring.NamespaceHandler\] interface, so that it can be directly used with the convenience methods defined in the \[pointer\] package.

```go
type IRNamespace interface {
    ir.IRNode
    wiring.NamespaceHandler
}
```

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
