<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# loadbalancer

```go
import "github.com/blueprint-uservices/blueprint/plugins/loadbalancer"
```

Package loadbalancer creates a loadbalancer instance in front of the service instance replicas.

### Wiring Spec Usage

Example: To add a load balancer in front of 3 instances of PaymentService:

balancer := CreateLoadBalancer\[payment.PaymentService\]\(spec, "payment\_service", \[\]string\{"payment\_service1", "payment\_service2", "payment\_service3"\}\)

### Generated Artifacts

Container for a load balancer instance that acts as the entrypoint for the replica instances.

## Index

- [func CreateLoadBalancer\[ServiceType any\]\(spec wiring.WiringSpec, serviceGroupName string, serviceNames \[\]string\) string](<#CreateLoadBalancer>)


<a name="CreateLoadBalancer"></a>
## func [CreateLoadBalancer](<https://github.com/Blueprint-uServices/blueprint/blob/main/plugins/loadbalancer/wiring.go#L29>)

```go
func CreateLoadBalancer[ServiceType any](spec wiring.WiringSpec, serviceGroupName string, serviceNames []string) string
```

[CreateLoadBalancer](<#CreateLoadBalancer>) is used by wiring specs to add a load balancer instance in front of replica instances for a specific service group.

Creates a load balancer instance. All the service instances must be previously defined as part of the wiring spec.

Type parameter \[ServiceType\] is used to specify the type of the service. It can be the name of an interface or an implementing struct. \[ServiceType\] must be a valid workflow service. \[ServiceType\] should be the same as the type to define the workflow instances.

Returns the name of the load balancer instance created and added to the wiring spec.

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
