<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# replication

```go
import "github.com/blueprint-uservices/blueprint/plugins/replication"
```

Package replication creates replicas for the services defined in the application's workflow spec.

### Wiring Spec Usage

Example: To replicate a PaymentService with 5 replicas that depends on payment\_cache and payment\_db:

replicas, balancer := Replicate\[payment.PaymentService\]\(spec, "payment\_service", 5, "payment\_cache", "payment\_db"\)

### Generated Artifacts

Container for each replica instance and a load balancer that acts as the entrypoint for the replica group.

## Index

- [func Replicate\[ServiceType any\]\(spec wiring.WiringSpec, serviceName string, numReplicas int, serviceArgs ...string\) \(\[\]string, string\)](<#Replicate>)


<a name="Replicate"></a>
## func [Replicate](<https://github.com/Blueprint-uServices/blueprint/blob/main/plugins/replication/wiring.go#L38>)

```go
func Replicate[ServiceType any](spec wiring.WiringSpec, serviceName string, numReplicas int, serviceArgs ...string) ([]string, string)
```

[Replicate](<#Replicate>) is used by wiring specs to replicate services from the workflow spec.

Creates replicas for the given service and creates a load balancer in front of the replicas. The Replicate method automatically defines the services into the wiring spec.

Type parameter \[ServiceType\] is used to specify the type of the service. It can be the name of an interface or an implementing struct. \[ServiceType\] must be a valid workflow service.

\`serviceName\` is a unique name for the replicated service

\`numReplicas\` is the total number of replicas that need to be deployed for this service.

\`serviceArgs\` must correspond to the arguments of the service's constructor within the workflow spec. These args will be used for each replica.

Returns the name of the all the replica instances and the name of the load balancer in front of the replicas.

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
