<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# namespacebuilder

```go
import "gitlab.mpi-sws.org/cld/blueprint/blueprint/pkg/coreplugins/namespacebuilder"
```

Package namespacebuilder provides a simple wiring spec utility struct called NamespaceBuilder that provides a simple way for plugins to create basic namespaces.

## Index

- [type NamespaceBuilder](<#NamespaceBuilder>)
  - [func Create\[T any\]\(parent wiring.Namespace, spec wiring.WiringSpec, namespacetype, name string\) \*NamespaceBuilder](<#Create>)
  - [func CustomCreate\(parent wiring.Namespace, spec wiring.WiringSpec, namespacetype, name string, accepts func\(any\) bool\) \*NamespaceBuilder](<#CustomCreate>)
  - [func \(b \*NamespaceBuilder\) Instantiate\(names ...string\) \(err error\)](<#NamespaceBuilder.Instantiate>)
  - [func \(b \*NamespaceBuilder\) InstantiateClients\(names ...string\) error](<#NamespaceBuilder.InstantiateClients>)
  - [func \(b \*NamespaceBuilder\) InstantiateClientsFromProperty\(propertyName string\) error](<#NamespaceBuilder.InstantiateClientsFromProperty>)
  - [func \(b \*NamespaceBuilder\) InstantiateFromProperty\(propertyName string\) error](<#NamespaceBuilder.InstantiateFromProperty>)


<a name="NamespaceBuilder"></a>
## type NamespaceBuilder

NamespaceBuilder is a utility struct for use by plugins that want to create child namespaces of a particular node type. For example, a golang process node wants to create a namespace that collects golang instances.

NamespaceBuilder is the simplest way for a plugin to create child namespaces and most plugins should use this.

Instances can be created with [Create](<#Create>) or [CustomCreate](<#CustomCreate>).

```go
type NamespaceBuilder struct {
    // A name for this namespace; it is only used when logging things during compilation
    Name string

    // All nodes that were explicitly instantiated through calls to [NamespaceBuilder.Instantiate]
    // These nodes can either be ContainedNodes or ArgNodes, and will show up in one of those slices
    InstantiatedNodes map[string]ir.IRNode

    // All nodes that have been instantiated explicitly or implicitly within this namespace
    ContainedNodes []ir.IRNode

    // All nodes that are required by this namespace, but are passed in from the parent namespace
    ArgNodes []ir.IRNode

    Namespace wiring.Namespace
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```

<a name="Create"></a>
### func Create

```go
func Create[T any](parent wiring.Namespace, spec wiring.WiringSpec, namespacetype, name string) *NamespaceBuilder
```

Creates a NamespaceBuilder that will internally build any node of type \[T\]. Other node types will be recursively built in the parent namespace.

<a name="CustomCreate"></a>
### func CustomCreate

```go
func CustomCreate(parent wiring.Namespace, spec wiring.WiringSpec, namespacetype, name string, accepts func(any) bool) *NamespaceBuilder
```

Creates a NamespaceBuilder that will internally build any node for which accepts returns true. Other node types will be recursively built in the parent namespace.

<a name="NamespaceBuilder.Instantiate"></a>
### func \(\*NamespaceBuilder\) Instantiate

```go
func (b *NamespaceBuilder) Instantiate(names ...string) (err error)
```

Gets the specified nodes in this namespace. If a node is not a pointer, then the node is just instantiated using Get If a node is a pointer, then this will instantiate the server\-side of the pointer. See \[NamespaceBuilder.Get\] for client\-side instantiation. Note that depending on the node type, it might be recursively fetched from the parent namespace, so it is possible for the node to be either a ContainedNode or an ArgNode

<a name="NamespaceBuilder.InstantiateClients"></a>
### func \(\*NamespaceBuilder\) InstantiateClients

```go
func (b *NamespaceBuilder) InstantiateClients(names ...string) error
```

Gets the specified nodes in this namespace. If a node is not a pointer, then the node is just instantiated using Get If a node is a pointer, then this will only instantiate the client\-side of the pointer. See [NamespaceBuilder.Instantiate](<#NamespaceBuilder.Instantiate>) for server\-side instantiation. Note that depending on the node type, it might be recursively fetched from the parent namespace, so it is possible for the node to be either a ContainedNode or an ArgNode

<a name="NamespaceBuilder.InstantiateClientsFromProperty"></a>
### func \(\*NamespaceBuilder\) InstantiateClientsFromProperty

```go
func (b *NamespaceBuilder) InstantiateClientsFromProperty(propertyName string) error
```

Inspects the propertyName property of \[b.Name\] and instantiates clients for the node names stored in that property.

Returns an error if propertyName doesn't exist, or if it isn't a string property, or if the nodes couldn't be built.

<a name="NamespaceBuilder.InstantiateFromProperty"></a>
### func \(\*NamespaceBuilder\) InstantiateFromProperty

```go
func (b *NamespaceBuilder) InstantiateFromProperty(propertyName string) error
```

Inspects the propertyName property of \[b.Name\] and instantiates the node names stored in that property.

Returns an error if propertyName doesn't exist, or if it isn't a string property, or if the nodes couldn't be built.

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
